# SPI Tiny Synth
Firmware to turn an ATtiny85 into an SPI polyphonic synthesizer module. Any microcontroller can tell it what notes to play, with up to 4 notes at once. Choose between 4 waveforms (sine, square, triangle, sawtooth) and set each frequency channel to its own pitch. All of the frequencies are added together in code and the analog value is output with a [pulse-width-modulated](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulse-width_modulation) (PWM) signal. This signal needs to be filtered and amplifiede (or at least buffered) before applying it to a speaker or headphones.

## Overview
Previously, I have used the PWM feature on the ATtiny to make piano synthesizer/instrument type projects. The inspiration came from this great tutorial on technoblogy.com on making a function generator using the ATtiny's PWM. By changing the PWM frequency and shape, you can create a whole range of retro/lofi notes (and chords, if polyphony is implemented).

I have made simple instruments with buttons and potentiometers, but only having 5 GPIO pins limited what I could do with it. While I could put everything on a larger development board, I think the move is to separate the frequency generation part from the music-controlling part. A "master" device should tell the ATtiny what notes to play, and the ATtiny should only be responsible for creating the PWM signal. By doing this the frequency generator can be used in a variety of projects, from a simple button piano to a whole MIDI player.

## SPI
Currently, I have just figured out how to set up two-way SPI with a two-byte buffer. Since each SPI frame is one byte long, I have to store the previous and current bytes at once. The first byte is the "command" byte that describes what setting to update (frequency, waveform, octave, etc.). The second byte is the "data" byte that has the new value for the setting. So far the buffer works, but I just tested it by changing a chord. Next, I need to add the specific commands and make them change the appropriate settings on the ATtiny.
